[MUSIC]
Today we're going to work with text
functions which help us manipulate data
to give us a better analysis and
better understanding of
the actual underlying data.
So, when you do receive a data dump from a
client, it's usually pretty unstructured,
because sometimes its systems aren't
formatted in a fashion that is easy to
analyze, especially in Excel, and
there also are other programs.
So we use these text cleaning functions to
set up our data so that we can actually do
an in-depth analysis and
our formulas do work down the line.
You'll find out things like vlookup and
pivot tables and
other functions where your
data does need to really be in
a clean fashion in order to be
able to analyze it effectively.
In this section, we will be discussing how
to cleanse your data using text functions.
As discussed throughout the course,
it's important to clean up the data set
before starting any type of analysis since
there might be issues within the data that
could generate noise and false results.
We're going to focus on
how to manipulate and
alter text within a data set using
a number of different text functions.
Text functions allow you to modify,
manipulate and
search text data in order to increase
the utility of your data in Excel.
Let's start with the RIGHT function.
This function allows you to extract
a substring from a text string starting at
the end of the text string and selecting
the defined number of characters.
The RIGHT function requires a text string and
a number as inputs.
For example, if I provide it with a cell
containing the word Hello and the number
2, Excel will return the L and the O,
the last two characters of the word.
Note that the RIGHT function, just like
every other text function we're covering
today, counts spaces as a character.
The RIGHT function can be combined with
other text functions that we will be
discussing later on in the section to
extract specific parts of the text string.
Our next function is the LEFT function.
And as expected, it works similar
to the RIGHT function, except that
instead of selecting the characters
starting at the end of the word,
this function starts at the beginning.
The LEFT function also requires
a text string and a number as inputs.
Let's practice the RIGHT function.
As we see, we have been given a set of
product IDs that are all structured
the same way, two letters,
followed by a dash, followed by number.
We are being asked to extract the last
four characters of these product
IDs using the right function.
We usually see problems like these when we
receive a numerical string that contains
multiple sets of identical information.
For example, in a bank account number,
which contains the routing information for
the bank as well as
the actual account number.
By using the RIGHT formula,
we can extract parts of the identified
information in order to run
an analysis on that data.
So let's get started.
As you can see, the RIGHT function
requires a text string as its first input.
Here, that's going to be
the product ID in column B.
The next input is the number of
characters that we would like to select.
Here, we know that all
the product IDs have four
numbers at the end,
hence we want to extract the last
four characters of our text string,
so we enter 4.
As you can see,
this formula successfully extracted
the last four digits of the product ID.
Now, let's copy the formula down the rest
of the rows to finish this exercise.
Now it's your turn to try the LEFT and
RIGHT text functions.
We will continue to build off these two
as we continue throughout the rest of
the section, so
let's get a start on exercise B.
[MUSIC]